 waited. 

The Orcs cleared a space in the center of the room where they fought over the bag. Claws darted in here and there, trying to snatch the contents. The room quickly filled to capacity with the brutish creatures. The noise of their disputations was deafening. The smell of so many of them, packed so close was debilitating. Rattick began to wonder if the chandelier had been a terrible idea. But he remained still and silent. There was nothing else to do. 

Soon the bag was upended, and the contents spilled all over the floor. For such a tiny, plain bag, it was shocking to see how much it contained. Among the miscellany -- the occasional weapon, rations of food, bits of apparel --  was sack after sack of coin. They poured from the opening, landing on the floor with solid, seductive clinks of loot. What would they do with gold, Rattick wondered. He decided to wait until they were tired of fighting amongst themselves. Then he would swoop down and collect as many of those sacks as he could.

Rattick's dreams of avarice were shattered as he watched Orcs claw the leather bags apart and cram the gold pieces in their mouths. They clawed and fought and ate until all of Boltac's gold -- of which there was a substantial fortune -- had disappeared into their monstrous gullets. Rattick sighed and felt an emotion that was very much like grief. Ah well, the dungeon had been good while it lasted, he thought. He'd wait for the creatures to disband then he would sneak out like the thief he was. 

But the Orcs did not leave. Their squabbles gradually died down, until, bloated on coin, they fell asleep under, on and around the tables. Rattick cursed his luck and shifted his cramping legs. How much longer would he be stuck up here? He waited until the strange snores of the Orcs below wafted up to his ears. Then he uncoiled himself from his perch and climbed back down.

He snuck through the sated and sedate creatures as quietly as he could. When one near the door snorted heavily and rolled over, Rattick swore he could hear coins rattling in his belly. A plan suggested itself to Rattick. And, with Rattick, where there was a plan, there was almost always a sharp knife involved. He drew his cruel blade from the sheath on his thigh and considered how he might do this quietly. With an ordinary person, he would just cram a hand over the mouth and slide the dagger down into the neck. This would sever an artery deep inside the torso so that the person would bleed to death internally in a matter of seconds. It was very clean and very professional. Rattick prided himself on this knowledge of this secret assassin's skill. 

But with an Orc, this presented a number of problems. Not the least of which, how do you cover a mouth that has tusks? And he had seen how brutishly powerful these things were. He doubted that they would die quietly. And how could he hope to hold this one down? He hunkered in a nearby shadow and considered his prey. As he did, out of habit, he drew a whetstone from a pouch on his belt, spit on it, and began to sharpen the already razor-sharp knife. There was gold enough here. He just needed to figure out how to cut off a piece for himself. 

When he heard a noise from outside, he replaced the knife and sharpening stone and then hid his hands under his robe. As clawsteps drew closer, he closed his eyes so that the whites of them might not give him away when whoever it was entered. This was an old and important trick of Rattick's. Hiding was a fine art, relying as much upon psychology as camouflage. The only time a person looked carefully at room was when they first walked in. Once they believed they knew who and what was in a room, it became very difficult for them to see anything new. It wasn't so much hiding in plain sight, as it was hiding in someone else's self-enforced blind spot. 

He heard another Orc enter the room. There was a shuffling and a scraping of claws. But there was no sharp intake of breath. No sudden movements. Rattick remained unseen. Then the Orc spoke, but in the Human tongue. 

"It is safe, they are all asleep," said a voice both alien and familiar to Rattick. He opened his eyes and saw Samga, the Wizard's clever Orc. And entering the room behind him... BOLTAC! In spite of himself and his skills of general and considerable sneaklitude, Rattick jumped at the sight of Boltac and struggled to stifle a curse. 

"Well, somebody had a party," said Boltac. "Did they eat everything?"

"Most likely, just the metals."

"Good, 'cause there's a couple of things it would be nice to have," Boltac said as he searched the wreckage of the room. After a few moments, he held up a half-chewed, heavy wool, glove. "I suppose the other one is too much to ask for. See if you can find a wand, or the sack."

Samga held up a shredded mass of fabric that had once been a magic sack. "You mean this?"

"Ah crap," said Boltac. He took the burlap from Samga and examined it carefully. The torn shred contained nothing. Boltac turned it over and then over again. As he folded and unfolded it, something fell out onto  the floor. It was a small, lacquered box. "Enh. Well, it's better than nuttin'," said Boltac as he tucked the box inside his tunic. Well, if that's all we got, it looks like we'll be doing this the hard way, unless..." Boltac looked around the room at the sleeping Orcs and their bloated bellies. "You know Samga, there was a lot of gold in that sack of mine. An awful lot. Did they eat all of it?"

"They kept eating until there was nothing left to eat," Samga said with a shrug. 

"En-henh. Not sophisticated and restrained like you."

"As you say," Samga said, surveying his kin with sadness. "All of your gold is gone. Such a shame."

"It's not gone," said Boltac, "It's in your friends' stomachs, here. Important distinction."

Samga did not understand much of anything humans said. The gold was eaten. And that other word, he had never heard it before, "Please, what does this word 'friend' mean."

"Ya kidding me, right?" said Boltac.

Samga gave him a flat Orcish look that admitted of no humor. 

"Okay. You Samga, you're my *friend*. You are *helping* me, ergo, you are my friend," said Boltac.

"But I am just hurting the Master," said Samga.

"Yeah, it's a trade. You help me by getting me out. I help you by hurting the Master, and we both benefit. Trade makes friends, Samga."

"But you can't be friends with such as I. I am beneath you."

"What? Don't be ridiculous. Beneath me? I mean, ya short, there's no way around that. But I know good people, and you Samga, you are good, people, uh, Orcle? Whatever, c'mon. I still got a lady to rescue."

Then Boltac noticed his wand, trapped underneath a sleeping Orc's leg. "Hey, uh, Samga, could you..." he said, pointing at the wand. "Probably better if you wake this thing up rather than me."

Samga retrieved the magic detecting wand. It too had been gnawed on but had fared better than the bag and gloves. Boltac used what remained of his tunic to wipe the saliva from it.

"Okay, this will do, now let's get outta here." They returned to the door. Rattick thought that Boltac looked right through him -- right into his eyes -- but Boltac's eye was drawn to something on the right side of the door. 

"Hey," Boltac said, "The sacred lamp of Lamptopolis."

"Lamptopolis?" asked Samga.

"Eh, nevermind. It's a long story. The damn thing doesn't really work that well for me, but, as I always say, you can never have too much light or too much water." Boltac reached down and grabbed the lamp by its handle. As he held it up, it blazed forth with a clear, brilliant light that filled the room as if the sun had been harnessed and dragged into the bowels of the earth. 

Samga hissed and averted his eyes. Rattick, covered his eyes to protect his night vision, but otherwise. stayed absolutely motionless. For an instant, he was completely exposed, but there was nothing to be done for it. 

Boltac said, "Holy crap," and dropped the lamp. Its light gradually faded away. A confused Boltac stood over it, rubbing his eyes and trying and get rid of the spots the brilliance had left in them. As the Orcs began to wake up, Boltac said, "I don't understand. I mean, I'm no a hero."

"We must go," said Samga.

Boltac grabbed the remnants of Themistre's Bag of Holding and wrapped them around the lamp handle. This time, when he picked it up, It did not light. He flipped a loose end of the burlap over the lamp's motto. "Burns with the flame of a true heart," Boltac muttered, "En-henh."

One of the slow-to-rise Orcs saw them go. The creature cried, "Hork!" but it was a half-hearted protest at best. The gold hung heavy in his belly and made it difficult for the Orc to rise.

Rattick slipped out of the shadows. How had Boltac survived? And where was he headed now? Rattick sensed chaos. And where chaos rode, there were always plenty of spoils for the taking. He followed the merchant and his unlikely guide. 


# 40 -- Confronting the Wizard -- 2165


"Samga. There you are," said Dimsbury. He stood on the dais next to the magic flame. Above the dais Asarah hung by her legs. "Thank the Gods you have returned. Pass me that knife over there so I may open this woman's neck." Asarah attempted to scream, but it was muffled by a gag which Dimsbury now tightened. "I must say, I enjoy your company much more now that you are quiet. I will almost be sad to see you go. Samga, the knife!"

From over his shoulder, Dimsbury heard Samga say, "No."

"No? What do you mean no? There is no 'No.'"

The Wizard turned to see his prized creature standing next to a smiling Boltac. "Samga, what do you have there? And where ever did you find it?"

"I'm back like a bad penny," said Boltac. 

"Before we get to the question of how," Dimsbury said, in a way that suggested that this was all very tiresome, "I will ask why?"

"I'm here to do you in."

Dimsbury gestured, vaguely, at Relan's body, now discarded along the wall. "Yes, that was his idea as well. What makes you think you will fare any better?"

"I am not an idiot."

"Idiots are always the last to find out," said Dimsbury

"Eh-henh. You want me to say touché, or you just want to get down to it?"

"Very well," said Dimsbury, and picked up a medium-sized silver whistle from his desk. "I shall let my staff handle the light work." He placed his lips to the whistle and blew. No sound came from the whistle, but Samga writhed in pain.

From outside there was a groaning commotion. And soon, metal-bloated Orc's streamed into the room. They snorted and growled and grunted and bitched in their brutish language about being awakened from their post-gluttony slumber. And if such a thing was possible, they seemed even more frightening and contentious than Orcs usually did. 

Dimsbury drew himself up to his full height. He lifted his arms and electricity crackled along his fingertips and along the surface of his robes. In full voice, he began his mighty, doom-filled pronouncement. "Tear him --"

"Hang on," said Boltac, "Hang on. Sorry to ruin your speech there. But I've got one of those too." Boltac reached for his charm necklace. For the first time in a long time, he felt very, very lucky. He placed the tiny, silver whistle to his lips and blew. 

Nothing happened.

"I'm sorry, is that it?" asked Dimsbury, his voice dripping with contempt. 

"Eh, hang on," Boltac put the whistle to his lips again and blew as hard as he could. Blew until he was red in the face. Blew until he was sputtering and out of air. When he was finished he said, "huuuuuuuuh," as he gasped for air. 

The Orcs looked at Boltac. Samga looked at Boltac. Hanging upside down, Asarah closed her eyes. 

"Yes," said Dimsbury, "if you are quite through?" Boltac looked down and away. "TEAR HIM LIMB FROM LIMB!"

There was nowhere to run. There was nothing to do. As the first Orc advanced, Boltac turned to Samga, "Sorry, I thought that would work."

Snarling, the front line of Orcs reached for Boltac. Their claws and tusks searched through savage arcs for the soft, fat flesh of the Merchant. But before Boltac was torn open, the biggest Orc of all let out a long howl of pain. The other Orcs stopped to watch as the largest of them grasped its stomach and collapsed to the floor. Then another fell, and then another, until all of them were lying on the floor, writhing in pain. 

"What is this foolishness?" demanded Dimsbury.

Boltac resumed blowing his whistle for all he was worth. As the Orcs writhed in agony on the floor, the largest of them made the connection. He lifted his taloned hand off the ground then plunged it deeply into his own stomach. The whistle dropped from Boltac's lips has his face contorted in disgust. Coins exploded outward from the unfortunate creature's stomach. They clicked and clinked as they ripped tiny slices of flesh from the now dying creature. 

A bolt of lightning exploded into the room and leapt toward the Orc

Boltac held up his gloved hand It absorbed Dimsbury's lightning bolt. "Hey! That worked!" Boltac said, laughing giddily. 

Dimsbury furrowed his brow and said, "Very well. The fat man wants to play."

The next bolt of lightning was so powerful, Boltac thought that his eyeballs had been seared from his head. But, when his eyes adjusted, he realized that the bolt had been so bright that he had been momentarily blinded. Still, the glove on his left hand remained intact. As Dimsbury extended his arm again, Boltac closed his eyes. He felt an impact on his arm. And again, and again. The palm of the glove grew hot and fought off the urge to shake his hand. On his belt, the magic detecting wand vibrated wildly. "Okay," said Boltac, "this isn't funny anymore."

"Do it now!" Samga cried over the crackle of the lightning and the rush of superheated air.

"I can't see!" protested Boltac. And the bolts kept coming and coming. Pounding into his left arm. He could feel the glove burning his flesh. And now, tiny shocks, the leftover current that this glove could not absorb, forced the muscles of his arm to contract and twitch violently. He turned his face away from the Wizard, still holding his hand up. Eyes closed in a painful wince, he felt around on his belt for where the magic detecting wand vibrated frantically. 

Samga pushed the heavy shelves over. They toppled over into Dimsbury and knocked him back a step. The Wizard lashed out blindly, and a bolt of electricity caught Samga in the chest. Samga staggered towards the Wizard then collapsed. As Dimsbury turned back, he saw Boltac throw the wand across the room into the flame of magic. 

"Ha!" cried Boltac as the wand spun through the air. Dimsbury sneered and raised his hand to launch another blast at the now distracted Merchant. But as the wand entered the flame, there was a wuffing sound, and the flame of magic snapped into sharp focus. The wand reached the heart of the flame and stopped moving. Everything stopped moving.

"What have you done?" asked Dimsbury. Then he realized he didn't care. He threw his hands forward in a gesture of power that was certain to obliterate Boltac from this plane of existence. But nothing happened. Dimsbury looked at his hands, confused. Boltac ran to the dais and swung Asarah off to the side. 

"Stop," commanded Dimsbury. He tried again to use his magic, but still, nothing happened. "What have you done?" he asked weakly.

Boltac did not answer. He lowered Asarah to the ground. As he knelt to untie her, he became aware of a high-pitched whine growing louder and louder.

Dimsbury stared at the frozen flame. The flow of magic, yes, he thought, that's what it had to be. The flow of magic had stopped. The pressure was building up behind it. Inside the still illuminated, perfect flames the wand vibrated furiously, emitting the high-pitched, rising whine that dominated the room. If Dimsbury could unblock the flow... He reached out and touched the frozen flame. When his finger brushed the surface, it cracked like fine glass. It shattered into a million fragments, and each of those fragments shattered again. 

The explosion knocked everyone flat. Asarah, of course was lying on the ground, so she was spared the brunt of the blast. Samga, surprised to have survived a bolt of lightning to his chest, had just risen to his hands and knees. He saw Dimsbury fly over his head, even as the blast knocked him flat. Boltac was flipped upside down and thrown into the wall. He landed in a heap next to what was left of Relan. Even the creeping coins were flung about so violently, they retracted into their glittering carapaces and pretended to be currency. 

As Boltac raised his head, he heard a moan coming from Relan's corpse. Wait! Not a corpse. Somehow he was still alive. "Too stupid to die?" Boltac asked. Then he searched in his tunic for the small lacquered box. He opened it with shaking hands. Within it was a tiny flask covered in ornately wrapped gold wire. No bigger than Boltac's thumb, this vial looked as if it could only contain the amount of moisture found in a few tears. 

Boltac looked at the heap of Relan. The blood soaked into his tunic was already turning brown. There was no color left in his face. The boy's lips were blue, but still his chest rose and fell. How was it that he lived? Was this not another kind of magic? The magic of will alone?

"Kid," Boltac said softly. "C'mon, kid." He carefully removed the tiny top from the flask. With even more care, he lifted the tiny bottle to Relan's blue and lifeless lips. Only the slightest flutter of air on Boltac's fingers gave him any hope that the lad was still alive. Boltac doubted that there was enough liquid to do more than wet Relan's tongue. There was scarcely a chance that this would work at all. But there was so little chance that any of this should work, so why not? Why not?

He tipped the bottle up and the few drops it contained disappeared into the cave of Relan's mouth. Boltac reached up and grasped his charm necklace. He squeezed all of the charms so hard, they cut into the palm of his hand and drew blood, Boltac prayed. He prayed to everybody. 


On the other side of the room, Dimsbury felt the tingle of power dance along his limbs again. The magic was back! He sat up and exclaimed, "I will have power again." Then he sneezed twice, not understanding the sharp pain that shot through his skull each time. And why did the room look different? What was in front of his face? He brought his hand up and bumped something. The pain became excruciating, and he realized that the Merchant's wand was stuck in his eye. He collapsed back to the floor with the shock of it. But lying there, hyperventilating for a moment, he managed to calm himself. 

On the far side of the room, he could see the flame, the font of all magic, guttering and flickering as if it was about to go out. No, thought Dimsbury, this could not be? How could this Merchant -- How could this fat, ignorant, money-grubbing aberration stop a mighty Wizard? Did he know what a world without magic would be like? Could such a thing even exist? For himself, and for the greater good, Dimsbury realized he must reach the flame and coax it back to a fuller life. 

As he struggled to regain his feet, a shape appeared before him. Dimsbury looked up and saw Samga, holding his chest with one hand. Samga said, "Master," because he didn't have another name for the man who lay before him. 

"Yes, Samga, my faithful servant after all. Thank goodness I did not strike you down. Please, help me," said the Wizard, not entirely aware that he was begging.

"You made me strong," said Samga. 

"Samga, Samga. You are my finest work. All is forgiven, my creation. Move your Father closer to the flame so that I may regain and preserve my power."

Samga bent and picked up Dimsbury. 

"Yes, good Samga. Brave Samga," whispered Dimsbury, touching the wand in his eye gingerly.

Samga looked up at the circle of heads mounted on the wall. The broken and aborted things that had lead to him. The trial and the error, the arrogant misuse of power in an attempt to craft life itself. Not for the first time, Samga wished that he had never been made.

"Yessss," said Dimsbury. "Just a little closer. Let me dip my fingers in the torrent of magic and then, and THEN!" Dimsbury