you've got a very thick skull. That and I've got a proposition for you."

"A proposition," Rattick said, getting to his feet.

"Well, Rattick, it's like this," Boltac said. "Turns out, after all of it, I'm a King."

"Ha," said Rattick.

"I know, no one is more surprised than I am. But here we are and the only thing to do is make the best of it. So, I'd like to make you my first Minister."

"What! This snake? He would not be a good and loyal minister," protested Relan.

"Exactly. Precisely. Just when I think you are hopeless, kid, you show a real glimmer of intelligence."

"You could never trust him," said Relan.

"You could trust your loyal and humble servant," said Rattick, bowing low. 

"See, that's just it. I'm not going to trust him. That's where everybody goes wrong in this King game. They start trusting their advisors and then bango, they are betrayed. And they wind up with their head on a pike land a confused look on their face as the crows peck out their eyeballs.

"I don't want to trust him. I want him to try everything he possibly can. If I'm safe against my 'friends', I will be certainly safe against my enemies."

"My Lord, I am at your service," said Rattick as he bowed even lower this time. 

"Get the sarcasm from your voice Rattick. I'm a King now, so it's not Lord. It's Your Highness." 

"King Boltac?" Rattick asked. 

"What did I just tell you about the sarcasm? See Relan? Do you see what a wonderful, disloyal minister he makes? Now come here Rattick kneel so you can receive your badge of office."

"You mean you are not going to have me killed? You really mean to do this? Appoint me as minister to your court?"

"Disloyal Minister. Minister of Disloyalty and Sedition. We can work out the title later, but yes, yeah, you slippery bastard. I want you where I can keep an eye on you."

Rattick knelt and said, "This is going to be a very different sort of kingdom, my liege." This time there was not the slightest hint of sarcasm in his voice. 

"Yes, it is. There's no magic anymore, Rattick. So who knows where the progress will stop." Then Boltac draped a robe of office around Rattick's shoulders.

 Rattick said, "Progress is magic, my liege."

"Well spoken, Rattick. I distrust your flattery, but well spoken."

"You are right to do so, my liege."

"Now, arise my Disloyal Minister. You have the run of the keep. But if you try to leave and get caught, you'll be killed. So either stick around or be really sneaky."

"Sire, My first advice as minister is to be rid of this peasant. This ox is more useful to you as a martyr than as a, a, a, what is he? Errand boy? Valet?""

"Why just look at him Rattick. He's the hero, anybody can see that."

"Hero? How can he be the hero? He's not even a knight."

"Excellent point, Rattick!" Boltac turned to Relan, "See how useful this guy is?"

"He is a bad man," said Relan.

"You think you rule a Kingdom by being Mr. Nice Guy all the time? Now get over here and take a knee, so I can Knight you."

"A knight? How can I be a knight? Don't I have to be a squire first?"

Boltac smiled at the Farm Boy, still so innocent in the ways of the world, and oblivious to what had happened, "I'm a King, and I didn't have to be a prince first. 

"But I don't know anything about being a Knight!"

"I don't know anything about being a King, so we'll both figure it out as we go along."

"I don't think this is a very good idea. I'm really not comfortable--"

"En-henh," said Boltac, "So you know what the first rule of being a Knight is?"

"No, see, I don't even know what the first rule is!"

"The first rule is you obey the King."

"Right," Relan nodded, "obey the King."

"Now kneel and hold still so I can knight you."

"To Knight him you need a sword," said Rattick, "Shall I go get a blade for you?"

"Wrong again, Rattick. You are a natural at this job. No swords No more disguising a fancy club by calling it a scepter." Boltac picked up an ornate scale from a stand beside the throne. Boltac carefully touched Relan on one shoulder and then the next. Then he said, "Deal fairly with all. Now arise, Sir Relan, first Knight of Robrecht."

"But…" protested Relan.

"Obey!" said the King. After Relan stood Boltac said, "Congratulations, the both of you. Sir Relan, I expect great things from you. Minister, I expect horrible things from you. The good and the bad. Now get outta here. Both of you. You too Chamberlain. No more visitors. Court's closed."

As they left the room Asarah entered. 

Boltac smiled at her and asked, "and where have you been?"

"Well, my liege," she said with a playful curtsy, "I have been surveying our new home. And I have learned something very important about it. It is very damp."

"Damp?"

"Damp. Moisture from the river seems to creep up the stones This place frightfully clammy. If I didn't know better, I would say that it was enchanted. Cursed even."

"So, it just needs a good airing out, maybe?"

Asarah laughed. "Oh no. No, no, no, this place is not homey at all. It will not do. Drafty, damp, strong-looking on the outside, but in no ways impressive or refined. Perhaps it is enough for a second-rate Duke, but for a King..." she tsked. "It will not do. We must build you a castle my liege."

Boltac sighed. All of a sudden he felt very tired. Everyone turning to him, asking what should be done. Always more questions, more problems and fewer answers. Was he even doing any of this right? Was this what being a King was all about? Now that he had time to think about it, would he ever get the hang of it?

He walked over to the wooden throne and sat down on it heavily. "Ennh," he said, listening to the creaking and feeling the sharp edges of the chair bite into his legs. "This chair is not a quality item."

"Well, have another one made." She took his hand and nodded encouragingly at him. "After all, you are a King now. You get to have things the way you want them."

"If we have to build a new castle, I'm not sure I can afford things the way I want them."

She kissed him on the cheek and said, "Don't be cheap. It's unbecoming of your station."




