be broken by an apprentice, it can't broken. Now lemme see here. It's got an inscription on it…"

Boltac wrangled a stepladder over to the wall and lifted the lamp from its resting place. As soon as he put a hand on its handle the crystal in the center of the lamp flickered to life. "Yeah," Boltac said, rubbing the dust from the letters that were cut into the bottom of the lantern's base. "It says, 'burns with the flame of a true heart. We'll, it's not much of a flame, is it? But at least you don't have to carry oil for it."

He handed the lantern to the Farm Boy. As soon as the boy touched the handle, the lantern blazed with a brilliant light, so bright, Boltac realized it had been a long, long time since he had cleaned the store. Then he closed his eyes to stop the pain.

"Wow," said the Farm Boy. 

"Give me that," snapped Boltac, snatching the lantern from the boy's hand. The lamplight returned to a dull flicker. 

"How much is it?"

"More than you can afford," Boltac grumbled as he hung the lantern back on the peg.

"That's okay," said the Farm Boy in a fresh-faced and agreeable way that made Boltac hate him all the more, "what I really need is a sword." 

"Maybe you do and maybe you don't. Keep an open mind for me. We've got Pikes, Bows, Warhammers, Battle Axes, Halberds, Flails, Morningstars, Maces and the largest selection of Fine Daggers this side of the mountains."

"I don't want a mace. I want a sword."

"Of course you do. And once again, Boltac's has you covered! We've got short swords, long swords, broadswords, rapiers, cutlasses, sabers, scimitars, shishkas, and slabas -- and I did I mention the finest selection of daggers of quality, this side of the mountains. While it's true that most of our blades have never been tested in battle, this is in keeping with our philosophy of passing the savings and the glory on to you."

"Well, uh, I'm afraid..."

"Afraid? A big strapping lad like you? Don't be ridiculous. Why, after you've been properly outfitted by Uncle Boltac, you'll have nothing to fear in this world. You'll be able to take on a Dragon with one hand and an OwlBear with the other. And therein lies the value of quality equipment."

"No, it's just that, I'm afraid that those beautiful swords," his eyes grew wide as he looked at them, "are all too expensive for me." 

The smile drained from Boltac's face, but he continued as if he hadn't just been kicked in the wallet. "Don't be silly. At Boltac's we have equipment to fit every budget." He kicked a bucket of swords that sat next the counter. "Have a look at our discount bucket."

The Farm Boy pulled a sword from the bucket and then dropped it back in quickly. "This sword still has blood on it!"

"That's how you know that it works! A gold piece gets you the pick of the barrel."

"A gold piece?" said the lad, looking concerned. 

"Well," said Boltac, who was starting to get a very bad feeling about the entire transaction, "At Boltac's there's always room to negotiate. But, try a few, see how you like the balance, and whatnot."
 
"I've been trying to save money to buy a sword, sir. Scrounging for herbs, seeing if anyone needs rats killed. But no one needs rats killed. And the countryside is bare for miles around…" He trailed off.

Boltac nodded knowingly. The only vermin that plagued Robrecht was an infestation of down-on-their luck adventurers. "I understand how it is. And how much did you say you have you been able to save?"

"Not enough, I'm afraid. So I was wondering if I could rent a sword."

"RENT A SWORD?" Boltac shouted. "Do you not see the sign?" he asked pointing at the sign which clearly read "All Sales Final."

"I can't read, sir."

"Oh, of course not."

"Please sir, it's so I can rescue the love of my life. She was taken, you see. Abducted by scoundrels."

"Oh well, that changes everything," said Boltac, as his face grew hard. "Tell me more," he asked, as if it were a dare.

"Well sir, she is a priestess of Dar. And, well,"

"Aren't they supposed to be virgins? Those priestesses of Dar."

The young man blushed and said, "It's more of a suggestion than a rule, sir. If you know what I mean," his face grew serious, "but if it helps, I was a virgin, if you catch my drift."

"Help? How would that help?"

"She's gone and got herself into trouble. I've gotten word from a friend that she's being held in a tower and requires a hero to rescue her."

"So what's keeping this broad from walking outta that tower herself?"

"Broad? Sir, you speak of the love of my life--"

"No offense, but you're life hasn't been that long yet."

"--and she's been placed at the top of the tower and sleeps a deathless sleep under an evil spell."

"En-henh. That's a Sleeping Beauty, kid" Boltac said. He was about to explain that the Sleeping Beauty was the name of a con game, popular among some of Robrecht's less-than-upstanding citizens, whereby a young man was seduced, lured into a trap and relieved of any valuable items he might have. Like, for instance, a borrowed sword. But the Farm Boy had bolted from the barn, and Boltac could see that there was no catching him. 

"Yes, she is a *real* beauty, sir. Asleep or awake. I knew you would understand. So, if I had a sword, I could go and rescue her. And there would certainly be treasure after I defeated the monsters that have been set to protect her from all the but the bravest and most faithful hero. Understand, I have no care for this treasure. Only my lady love. So all the valuables would be yours. All that for loaning me a sword." 

Boltac winced under the onslaught of the boy's sincerity. "But just a sword? I mean, armor would help too?"

"Yes, it would, but…"

"And some healing potions, you know, just to be safe."

"Well, of course, but"

"And perhaps a flying steed. White, with large flapping wings."

"You have a flying steed?" the boy asked in awe. 

"Even if I did, you couldn't afford it."

"But, we're talking about a loan."

"No, *you're* talking about a loan. I'm sorry, you're just gonna have to find yourself another Priestess of Eternally Questionable Virtue, kid."

"Look, I'm not asking for armor or a flying horse, I'm just asking to borrow a sword."

Boltac looked the boy dead in the eyes and said, "I'm not giving you any discounts."

"It's not a discount. It's a loan."

"It's the worst kind of discount. It's a 100% discount!"

"But I'd bring it back. Maybe with a few nicks, but definitely covered in glory."

"Oh, Glory is it? Would that enhance the retail value?"

"Yes, yes," he said eagerly, unaware of the trap he was falling into.

"Because you are such a great fighter."

"Yes, that's it."

"Powerful, strong," Boltac prompted.

"Yes."

"Ready for danger from any quarter."

"I might not look like much, sir, but I'll be a mighty hero yet."

"All you need is a sword? Is that right?"

"Yes, please, Sir. Please. Haven't you ever been young and in love?"

Boltac's face soured. "I was never young.

"Look, kid, I'm not going to loan you a sword. But I do have an old mace I keep behind the counter, you know, in case of trouble. It's not much to look at, but it's always been lucky for me. I like to think it would be good luck for you. Would you like to see it?"

"Very much."

Boltac lifted the mace up from behind the counter. As he raised the weapon high in the air, the lad's trusting, cow-like eyes followed it, studying every detail of the well-worn wood, the wrapped leather handle, and the business end studded with heavy iron nails. Boltac saw the lad move from disappointment to hope. "Yes," his eyes seemed to say, "a mace. I could do it with a mace."

Boltac hit him right between the eyes and knocked him out cold.

-
# 4 -- A Man Appearing from Nowhere -- 3457

In the center of Robrecht, there was a river. In the center of this river was an island. And at the center of this island was a very damp castle. And in the very damp center of this very damp castle was a Duke on a throne. Both of which were also damp. And one of them was terribly bored.

The Duke started what would have been a mighty yawn, but he quickly worked to stifle it. This resulted in one of his eyes closing and his mouth attempting to wrap itself around his strong nose. When his face was not in spasm, the Duke's came close enough to being noble. He had a fine, drawn face, thick dark hair and a nose well-suited for looking down at people. But if you looked in his eyes, the effect of a cruel Mercian conquerer would have been spoiled. With more force of personality, his eyes might have been piercing. But alas, from the loins of the most powerful empire on earth had sprung another stuffed personage. 

He was yawning because he was holding court. Well, such as court as could be held in the remote and unimpressive Dutchy of Robrecht to which he had been consigned. There were no glittering courtiers here. There were no ladies-in-waiting. There was just the Duke, an uncomfortable wooden chair and a long line of disputes that the Duke was expected to settle before he would be allowed to go to his supper. 

"Messers Rudolph and Fuad, herders of goats!" the Chamberlain announced. The Duke waved his hand and the men were brought before him.

"He had advantage of my goat, sire. And I desire compensation," said a cross-eyed man as he glared in the general direction of the man standing next to him. The Duke turned his gaze at the accused, a man who was wearing a goat-skin helmet. Was the helmet this man's idea of formal dress, the Duke wondered? The Duke opened his mouth to ask, but then thought better of it. He squinted at the man and tried to figure the matter on his own. 

The pause stretched to such a length that the Chamberlain gently prompted, "Sire?"

"Advantage?" asked the Duke, unable, with his formal, courtly upbringing, to understand how having a goat might be an advantage. It was not that there were no goats in the Mercian Empire. It was that his entire life had been carefully constructed to insulate him from all creatures that were shaggy and uncultured.

"He had knowledge of my best NannyGoat."

"Knowledge? I don't understand, of course he has knowledge of your animal," the Duke said, glancing at the dull-eyed, leather-helmeted man who was being accused of bestiality, "He is a fellow-goatherd, is he not?"

"No, my lord," said the cross-eyed man, blushing with the weight of what he must now make painfully obvious. "He..." and then he thrust his pelvis forward and backwards in an unmistakable, rhythmic motion. 

"Oh. Oh? OH!" said the Duke, as the facts of the case came into disgusting focus for him. "Really? What was it like?" asked the Duke.

The Chamberlain began to cough. This was a prearranged signal between the two of them that the Duke was wandering dangerously off course. The Chamberlain did a lot of coughing in the performance of his duties.

"Very well," the Duke said, "I command you to violate one of *his* sheep."

"WHAT!"

"Yes, yes, my good man, that is justice. He has had one of yours, so," the Duke slapped his knee decisively, "You must have one of his. An eye for an eye and an ewe for an ewe. Yes, that certainly has the ring of justice to it, doesn't it? Symmetry and suchlike." The Duke said, feeling awfully proud of himself. But by the look on the goatherd's face, he could see that his legal acumen was lost on the man. 

The Chamberlain continued to cough. The Duke became worried about how he might talk his way out of his ruling without seeming that he was contradicting himself. The Duke was aware, vaguely, that he was not the sharpest arrow in the quiver. But he was straight on one point: The only mortal sin a person in power might truly commit was seeming to contradict themselves. 

He couldn't understand where he had gone wrong? What taboo had he crossed? It was a perfectly logical verdict. He was a perfectly logical ruler. And why did rulers have to explain themselves to their subjects anyway? Maybe it was just Dukes. He was pretty sure if he were a King he wouldn't have had to explain himself to anyone. 

Just as he was thinking that, a Wizard appeared in the great hall. And this is not to say he made an entrance. One minute there was an empty space on the cold stone floor and the next, there he stood. Shaven pate, black robes, a large silver torq worn around his neck, only slightly larger than the dark circles under his eyes, strange stains underneath his fingernails -- yes, unmistakably a Wizard. One moment he wasn't there, and the next, he was. The Wizard Appeared.

There was a gasp as those in the great hall, jumped back from the man who had apparated into their midst. Nonplussed, the Chamberlain said, "A man appearing from nowhere!" 

The Wizard looked at the Chamberlain sharply and hissed, "My name is Alston Dimsbury."

"Dimsbury, A wizard of considerable evil," the Chamberlain said. But the wizard's look darkened, and more imaginative people in the crowd believed that they saw flames forming in the Wizard's eyes. 

"…who's reputation is much maligned," the Chamberlain added diplomatically. 

"Yes, enough, that's quite enough," said the Duke. "Wizard, you will simply have to wait your turn."

"Oh," said the Wizard. "I hope this isn't convenient for you. I *am* sorry. Pray, continue with your amusements. My time is of little consequence." He punctuated his sentence with a wave of his hand that turned the cross-eyed goatherd in a rather lovely-looking brown and white nanny goat. This time, even the Chamberlain gasped in fear. 

Fuad, the Goatherd in the leather helmet, smiled at the newly-minted goat with an unwholesome gleam in his eye. As he rubbed his hand along the length of rope that held up his trousers, the Nanny goat gave up a fearful bleat.

Dimsbury said, "As I was saying, don't let me interrupt."

No one spoke. The only sound was the clacking of the goat's hooves as she/he wisely made for the exit as fast as her/his terribly confused legs would carry him/her.

Exasperated that the crowd still wasn't getting the point, Dimsbury said, "What does it take? Must I strike all of you down with a pillar of flame? Gah. Let me outline it for you. I am a *horrible* man. Dimsbury the terrible. Master of the arcane arts and elder mysteries, summoner of demons, so on and so forth. Now, go. Flee."

And flee they did. When the oaken door had slammed behind them, Dimsbury and the Duke were the only people left in Robrecht's meager throne room. 

"There," said the Wizard, "That's better."

"Hullo, Alston, enjoying yourself?" asked the Duke.

"Quite Weeveston. You know how I do like to make an entrance."

"I apologize for my subjects," said the Duke, "they are a bit... provincial."

"Thick is the word I would have used."

"Would you care for some wine," asked the Duke as he draped his leg over the side of his chair and slumped with the false exhaustion that can only come with never having worked a day in your life.

"I want you to *get out*," said the Wizard.

"Uh? Pardon me?"

"I said, get out. Abdicate. Leave this place, and take everyone with you."

"I wish that I could," said the Duke, "I never wanted to come to this damp, grey place to begin with."

"Ah, well there you go," said the Wizard, "I love it when things are easy. Did you say there was wine?"

"Sadly," said the Duke.

"Sadly? I thought you said there was wine?"

"Oh, wine? We've got it by the barrelful. And by the bottleful in cabinet over there. Since you've run off all my servants, subjects and goat herders, you will have help yourself. All told this tower and keep contains more wine than I could drink in three lifetimes. Although the prospect of staying here for three lifetimes," the Duke chuckled as he made a slicing motion across his throat.

"I don't think you understand," said Dimsbury, trying to be reasonable, "this is a courtesy call. What I mean to say is that this request is for your benefit, not mine."

"Steady on, old boy," said the Duke. "I'm on your side. I'm ready to do as you command. You want this kingdom -- well this dismal little duchy -- I say you can have it. Good riddance to fickle mountain weather, thick-ankled peasant girls and goat-violators of every shape and stripe. But, here's the thing, I can't. The minute I leave my post, my family will know of it. In particular my Uncle Torvald, do you know my Uncle Torvald?"

"Can't say I have had the pleasure," said Dimsbury, fighting back the urge to engulf the Duke in flames with a clap of his hands. 

"I have the burden of carrying a great name. Weeveston Prestidigitous RampartLion Toroble the 15th, in fact. And this name means that I am not free do what I would like. I am not free to marry whom I like. I am not free to live where I like. I have been sent here. And if I abdicate, Torvald Toroble will have me killed. Either by assassin or generalship of an army on its way to a glorious lost cause or perhaps just with a good old-fashioned hunting accident."

"How do you know?" asked Dimsbury, still trying to reason with him. 

"It's how he did my father. Hunting "accident." And when dear old Dad survived that, then Torvalds sent in his very own doctor to poison the man."

"Damn it," cried Dimsbury, "I'm trying very hard not to be the stereotypical Evil Wizard. But you're just not helping. I don't want to be a stereotype. Don't make me be a stereotype."

"I never suggested that you were," said the Duke, with a look of care on his face.

"I could have swept in from the East and just taken that mine and cavern system for myself. Killed all the miners, released horrible creatures into the countryside. Right? Could have done that, couldn't I?"

"Yes, Alston you could have, but I don't feel that you are the kind of --"

"But instead, I bought that mine. Paid gold on the barrel head for it. Didn't I?"

"You did. Please, Alston, what has gotten into you? You are a fine neighbor," said the Duke, trying to tell this powerful and somewhat crazed man what he wanted to hear. 

"Yes, I am," Dimsbury said, calming enough to take a healthy gulp of wine. "I am a fine neighbor, but you, and I mean the royal you, Duke Robrecht, are not."

"Ugh, Robrecht as a name. Why it sounds simply ghastly, doesn't it."

"Your subject are the ghastly bits. Those little people who infest this land. With their grubbing in the dirt and milking of animals."

"Ah, taxpayers," said the Duke, "Yes, my Uncle says I am here to farm them."

"Herd them? Wouldn't herd be the word you're looking for?"

"Yes, I suppose it would. I am to herd them until tax time. And then I shear them and release them back into the fields."

"It's not your sheep that are the problem. Nor your goats. The problem is the relentless press of adventurers seeking to steal what they imagine is the vast repository of treasure stashed in my dungeon."

"You have treasure, Alston? All this time you've been holding out on me?"

"No, no, heavens no. I mean a little *family* money, but nothing to speak of. I am a Wizard, a researcher into the arcane and terrible forces that undergird all of our lives."

"Sounds rather dull to me."

"Well, it's not for everyone, but my work is *important*. Deucedly important. So much so that I've nearly isolated the source of all magic in this plane of existence."

"Plane of existence?" asked the Duke, wrinkling his face in confusion.

"Sorry, sorry, don't mean to trouble you with technical terms. The thing is, If I can harness this source, tap into and control the very essence, why I would be the most powerful and accomplished Mage in the history of the world."

"Prize for that is there?"

"No, Weeveston, there is not. Power is its own reward."

"Ah, yes, well, you'd have to talk to my Uncle about that."

"But not on a hunting trip?"

"Oh, ho ho, quite so. Quite so."

"The point is, I keep getting interrupted in my work, by these blasted adventurers. I can't get anything done. And it's your fault."

"My fault?"

"Yes, the endless stream of mendicants, adventurers and ne'er do wells who seek to kill me and deprive me of property. To become rich heroes by defeating the Evil Wizard, that's what they want!" Here Dimsbury grew less sure of himself, "I'm not an *evil* wizard, am I Weeveston? I try not to be, but some days, God I just don't know."

"No, of course you are not an Evil Wizard. I've known you since grammar school. A touch mischievous, perhaps. But Evil? No."

"Oh, thank you for saying so. I do appreciate your honesty," said Dimsbury. "At first, I thought the adventurers would stop coming. You know