I lived with these  primitives, as you name them. I learned their language, their customs, I came to know their faces and their smiles. This is the nature of field Anthropology. 

"Sounds ghastly."

"It wasn't. I assure you, it was heavenly. After a long estrangement from the countryside of my native Virginia I found it a delight to sleep in a wild place and often underneath the stars again. The sounds of the night were different, to be sure. But the oneness with nature. The feeling that one is always on the verge of discovering something new, while at the same time being connected with something very, very old, there is nothing like it."

"Ah, the American disease. The Australian ailment. To be drawn to the frontier as the moth is to flame."

"Perhaps, and if it is so, what could be wrong with it?"

"Aside from every sane man's preference for well-defended civilization, the problem is that one day, we will most assuredly run out of frontier."

"On that day we will leave for the stars."

'Ho, ho, ho! Forgive me my boy, but you have been reading far too much Jules Verne."

"I find it hard to see how progress for mankind is not to be found within the comfortable confines of gentlemen's club."

"A comfortable chair, a warm fire, a sound roof. Tell me that you have not progressed from the mud huts of the Gooey Gooey."

[Gaya Gooma], Jack said, somewhat affronted. 

"Whatever they are called, tell me. Would you rather be here with me, right now, or back there with them?"

"It is a moot question. They are all dead."

"Dead! Good heavens. My point exactly, marauding heathens did them in. You're the last survivor and you fear they have sent poison dart shooting agents to London in persuit of you?"

"If you are done enjoying yourself, I will continue my story and explain."

"I hope to never be done enjoying myself, but pray continue."

"I lived with them for nearly nine months. Out of sheer force of habit, I suppose, they came to accept me as one of their own. There was a minor fracas with a neighboring tribe and I and my trusty Winchester acquitted myself well in their eyes. But still, they did not open up to me completely. 

"Within the tribe there was a circle of elders, all men, who had special status. Through some kind of trial, the details of which, no one would talk about. I had once stumbled upon them in a council or crude parliment of sorts. I was drawn to the sound of their language, spoken in a way I had not heard before. It was, I believed the [true voiceless implosive]  that I had labored these many months and miles to find. 

"Understand, that I was far, far out on the edge here. My porters had expended what little loyalty they had and had left. Either for home or more pleasant environs. And I had still not found the bit of language which I sought. I was thinking on moving on. So, when I heard these sounds, heedless of the consquences , I plunged into the crude shelter in which I heard them."

"This did not go over well. And these men, warriors one and all, brandished such implements of war that they had in what I believed was a sincere wish to do me harm. Only the the headman, [              ] intervened on my behalf.

"Days later, after taking the time to bring my journal observations up to date in case anything should happen to me, I went to [           ] in the guise of an apology. But truly I went 

Canny old politician that he was -- truly, he would do well in Parliment -- he thanked my for my help with their enemies and wished that I would stay through another season, to that we might make war upon another tribe that had caused him no end of trouble. I smiled and nodded, but committed to nothing. Then I asked him about the words that I had heard. What they had meant, and what this manner of speech this ways. 

The old chieftan looked at me for so long that I grew uncomfortable. Then he said, "I could tell you, but it would do you no good. You cannot speak from a place you have never been."


---

It is very dangerous, even for gooyma gaya -- but for you, English, it is certain death. You will end up like me, or worse. I beg you, go. 

I am American, I told him. And I will 

Grimly the fellow said, "American, English, it's all the same. Your pale skin will burn." 


----


The night after he comes back, the Zoroastrians attack the village. There is a terrible fire. Our young hero flees. 

He uses the skills he's learned to stay alive. He gets work on a tramp steamer, comes through the Suez, books passage for London (where I've arrived this very night) and goes to him. 


But the strangest things happened to me on the journey -- every once and a while I would find myself drawn to a flame. Feelilng that it was some how different, and I was compelled to enter it. 

And did you?

Heavens no,

Do you notice anything about these flames. 

